

git is  a version controlling system
what is version cotrolling:tools that help a software team manage changes to source code over time.
sorce code:when client give the reqirement the development team will devlop the sorce code
 
git maintains the differeent versions of source code after changes and before changes.
 
*two types of version controlling
 
1)Centralized version controlling 
2)distributed version controlling
 
git is distributed version controlling
we can manage the source code using git commands.
and we having one terminal called gitbash where we can run commands.
 
* as per git there are three types of files.
 
1)untracked files:the file that devloper create by default ex: that we create in folder,developer need to move untracked file to staging area(git add filename)
and from there to local repository,to check which are untrackor other we use command called (git status) 
if we want to move all files to stageing area then use (git add .)
to movefrom stageing area to Lr  we use (git commit -m "write any message here")
2.staged files: 
3.commited files we use (git log) how many files commited
 
after devloping code every developers do, move the untracked files to stageing area and from there to local repository
if we want to sent back file from staging area to untracraked files use (git restore filename)
we  should convert folder to working directory first to do all of this.thier we use (git init)
when do do git init we can observe that a hidden folder .git will create and in terminal we will get master brach the default branch of git is master
if developer have another functions then we have to create another branches for that we use (git branch branchname)
(git checkout branchname): it goes to that branchname branch.
 
git init:initialized empty git repository in location.
touch f1:create an empty file in location
git add.:add all the created files to stageing area.
git commit -m "a":sent all files to local repository with meassge or commit a.
git log --oneline: shows the list of commits in the masterbranch
 
 
*git rebase means:it is called fast forward merge 
here commits in child branch will be latest commits after merging if we use rebase child.
 
 
*difference between merge and rebase:
 
ex:in master if we commit f1 and then after we commit f2 next we create a child branch called test where here we commit f3 and after f4 and after f5 
then we checkout to master and there we commit f6 
so here if we use rebase of child to master we get child commit as latest commit we get order like f3,f4,f5,f6,f1,f2
other wise we get linear way if we merge.
 
how to rearrange the commit history:git rebase -i HEAD~4
if we want to remove the commit we use squash key word.
.gitignore ignores the files which we want to ignore ex:for java we have .class and .java so we ignore .class here by using .gitignore
stash means hiding.
in ingore it works for what machine gernarated things like automated files whwere as stash works for developer devloped code
 
   stash:
 
 
1) To stash the stagged files:git stash
2) To stash the stagged and untracked files:git stash -u
3) To see the list of stashes: get stash list
4)To get back all the stash files :git stash pop
5)to being the older stash out:git stash pop stash@{stash_number}

 
 
                   

* how to roll back from the privious version of sorce code
 
we want commit id for that we use git log --oneline
 
git reset --hard  84d73cc
 
that last one is commit id 
 
after installing gitbash if open afile there first we need to make working direrctory
 
by using git init
 
after we should give user name and password for git 
 
$ git init
 
$ git config --global user.name "ramakanth"
 
$ git config --global user.email  "ramakanm@hmail.com"

we can veryfiy or check the verifications :git config --global --list
 
we use git status for checking files
 
tto see hoe many commited files are there :we use git log
 
hoe creat e a branch git branch braanch name
 
move to that branch is :git  checkout branchname
